Approaches to meaning differ in ways as fundamental as the questions they aim to answer. The theoretical outlook described in this chapter, the embodied simulation approach, belongs to the class of perspectives that ask how meaning operates in real time in the brain, mind, and body of language users. Clearly, some approaches to meaning are better suited to this question than others. Mechanistic models that bridge levels of analysis—from the brain and its computations to the functions and behaviours they support—and that recruit the convergent tools of empirical cognitive science are particularly well equipped. The embodied simulation approach is an example of this type of approach. 
The fundamental idea underlying the embodied simulation hypothesis is a remarkably old one. It’s the notion that language users construct mental experience of what it would be like to perceive or interact with objects and events that are described in language. Carl Wernicke described the basic premise as well as anyone has since (and with remarkably little modern credit, as Gage and Hickok (2005) point out). Wernicke wrote, in 1874: 
The concept of the word “bell,” for example, is formed by the associated memory images of visual, tactual and auditory perceptions. These memory images represent the essential characteristic features of the object, bell. (Wernicke 1977 [1874]: 117) 
This is the essence of simulationism. Mental access to concepts involves the activation of internal encodings of perceptual, motor, and affective—that is, modality-specific— experiences. This proposal entails that understanding the meaning of words involves activating modality-specific representations or processes. Wernicke came to this notion through his work on localization of cognitive functions in the brain, and as a result, it should be no surprise that he had a very clear view of what the neural substrate of these “memory images” would be and where it would be housed: 
the memory images of a bell [. . .] are deposited in the cortex and located according to the sensory organs. These would then include the acoustic imagery aroused by the sound of the bell, visual imagery established by means of form and color, tactile imagery acquired by cutaneous sensation, and finally, motor imagery gained by exploratory movements of the fingers and eyes. (Wernicke 1977 [1885–1886]: 179) 
In other words, the same neural tissue that people use to perceive in a particular modality or to move particular effectors would also be used in moments not of perception or action but of conception, including language use. This, in words now 130 years old, is the embodied simulation hypothesis. 